# Module 6: Backing Azure Solutions with Azure Storage

# Lab Answer Key: Deploying Azure Storage to Support Other Workloads in Azure

## Before we start

1.  Ensure that you are logged in to your **Windows 10** Virtual Machine using the following credentials:

    -   **Username**: Admin

    -   **Password**: Pa55w.rd

2.  Observe the **Taskbar** located at the bottom of your **Windows 10** desktop. The Taskbar contains the icons for the common applications we will use in the labs:

    -   Microsoft Edge

    -   File Explorer

    -   [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/)

    -   [Microsoft Azure Storage Explorer](https://azure.microsoft.com/features/storage-explorer/)

    -   Bash on Ubuntu on Windows

    -   Windows PowerShell

    -   Microsoft Word 2016

    > **Note**: You can also find shortcuts to these applications on the **Desktop** and in the **Start Menu**.

## Exercise 1: Create Virtual Machine Resources

#### Task 1: Open the Azure Portal

1.  On the Taskbar, click the **Microsoft Edge** icon.

2.  In the open browser window, navigate to the **Azure Portal** (<https://portal.azure.com>).

3.  Enter the **email address** of your *Microsoft account*.

4.  Click the **Next** button.

5.  Enter the **password** for your *Microsoft account*.

6.  Click the **Sign in** button.

#### Task 2: Create Resource Group

1.  At the top of the portal, click the **Cloud Shell** icon to open a new shell instance.

2.  In the **Cloud Shell** command prompt at the bottom of the portal, type in the following command and press **Enter** to create a new resource group:

    ```azurecli-interactive
    az group create --name MOD06VMDK --location eastus
    ```

3.  Type in the following command and press **Enter** to show the details of your resource group:

    ```azurecli-interactive
    az group show --name MOD06VMDK
    ```

#### Task 3: Create Virtual Network (VNET)

1.  Type in the following command and press **Enter** to create a new **Virtual Network**:

    ```azurecli-interactive
    az network vnet create --resource-group MOD06VMDK --name ComputeNetwork --location eastus
    ```

2.  Type in the following command and press **Enter** to view your new *Virtual Network* in the list of networks using this command:

    ```azurecli-interactive
    az network vnet list
    ```

3.  Type in the following command and press **Enter** to get a list of *ids* for *Virtual Networks* in your subscription:

    ```azurecli-interactive
    az network vnet list --query [*].{AzureId:id} --out tsv
    ```

4.  Type in the following command and press **Enter** to create a new **Subnet**:

    ```azurecli-interactive
    az network vnet subnet create --resource-group MOD06VMDK --name ComputeSubnet --vnet-name ComputeNetwork --address-prefix 10.0.1.0/24
    ```

5.  Type in the following command and press **Enter** to view a list of *Subnets* associated with your *Virtual Network*:

    ```azurecli-interactive
    az network vnet subnet list --resource-group MOD06VMDK --vnet-name ComputeNetwork
    ```

6.  Type in the following command and press **Enter** to show the details of your newly created *Subnet*:

    ```azurecli-interactive
    az network vnet subnet show --resource-group MOD06VMDK --vnet-name ComputeNetwork --name ComputeSubnet
    ```

#### Task 4: Create Public IP Address (PIP)

1.  Type in the following command and press **Enter** to create a new **Public IP Address**:

    ```azurecli-interactive
    az network public-ip create --resource-group MOD06VMDK --name ComputePIP --location eastus --allocation-method Dynamic
    ```

2.  Type in the following command and press **Enter** to view a list of all *Public IP Addresses* in your subscription:

    ```azurecli-interactive
    az network public-ip list
    ```

    > **Note**: IP address field will show **null** until you associate it to your Virtual Machine

#### Task 5: Create Network Security Group (NSG)

1.  Type in the following command and press **Enter** to create a new **Network Security Group**:

    ```azurecli-interactive
    az network nsg create --resource-group MOD06VMDK --name ComputeNSG --location eastus 
    ```

2.  Type in the following command and press **Enter** to view a list of all *Network Security Groups* in your subscription:

    ```azurecli-interactive
    az network nsg list
    ```

3.  Type in the following command and press **Enter** to create a new *Network Security Group* **Rule**:

    ```azurecli-interactive
    az network nsg rule create --resource-group MOD06VMDK --nsg-name ComputeNSG --name ComputeRule --access Allow --protocol Tcp --direction Inbound --priority 100 --source-address-prefix Internet --source-port-range "*" --destination-address-prefix "*" --destination-port-range 3389
    ```

4.  Type in the following command and press **Enter** to view a list of *Rules* associated with your *Network Security Group*:

    ```azurecli-interactive
    az network nsg rule list --resource-group MOD06VMDK --nsg-name ComputeNSG 
    ```

#### Task 6: Create Network Interface Card (NIC)

1.  Type in the following command and press **Enter** to create a new **Network Interface Card**:

    ```azurecli-interactive
    az network nic create --resource-group MOD06VMDK --name ComputeNIC --location eastus --subnet ComputeSubnet --vnet-name ComputeNetwork
    ```

2.  Type in the following command and press **Enter** to view the details of your newly created *Network Interface Card*:

    ```azurecli-interactive
    az network nic show --resource-group MOD06VMDK --name ComputeNIC
    ```

3.  Type in the following command and press **Enter** to update the *Network Interface Card* by applying a *Network Security Group*:

    ```azurecli-interactive
    az network nic update --resource-group MOD06VMDK --name ComputeNIC --network-security-group ComputeNSG 
    ```

4.  Type in the following command and press **Enter** to bind a *Public IP Address* to the *Network Interface Card*:

    ```azurecli-interactive
    az network nic ip-config create --resource-group MOD06VMDK --name ComputeConfig --nic-name ComputeNIC --public-ip-address ComputePIP
    ```

5.  Type in the following command and press **Enter** to view the updated details of your *Network Interface Card*:

    ```azurecli-interactive
    az network nic show --resource-group MOD06VMDK --name ComputeNIC
    ```

6.  Type in the following command and press **Enter** to view a list of *Public IP Addresses* bound to the *Network Interface Card*:

    ```azurecli-interactive
    az network nic ip-config list --resource-group MOD06VMDK --nic-name ComputeNIC
    ```

7.  Type in the following command and press **Enter** to view a table showing all resources in your *Resource Group*:

    ```azurecli-interactive
    az resource list --resource-group MOD06VMDK --query "[*].{Name:name, ReferenceUri:id}" --out table
    ```

8.  Record the unique Id and name for each of the four resources you created within the **MOD06VMDK** *Resource Group*.

9.  Close the **Cloud Shell** prompt at the bottom of the portal.

> **Review**: In this exercise, you created a **Public IP Address**, **Network Interface Card**, **Network Security Group** and **Virtual Network** for use with a **Virtual Machine**.

## Exercise 2: Create Virtual Machine with Storage Account using ARM

#### Task 1: Deploy Virtual Machine using ARM Template

1.  On the left side of the portal, click the **Create a resource** link.

2.  At the top of the **New** blade, locate the **Search the Marketplace** field.

3.  Enter the text **Template Deployment** into the search field and press **Enter**.

4.  In the **Everything** search results blade, select the **Template deployment** result.

5.  In the **Template deployment** blade, click the **Create** button.

6.  In the **Custom deployment** blade, click the *Build your own template in the editor* link.

7.  In the **Edit template** blade, click the **Load file** link.

8.  In the **Open** file dialog that appears, navigate to the **Allfiles (F):\\Mod06\\Labfiles\\Starter** folder.

9.  Select the **storageaccount.json** file.

10. Click the **Open** button.

11. Back in the **Edit template** blade, click the **Save** button to persist the template.

12. Back in the **Custom deployment** blade, perform the following actions:

    a.  Leave the **Subscription** field set to it's default value.

    b.  In the **Resource group** section, locate the list and select the value **MOD06VMDK** option.

    c.  In the **Network Interface Card Id** field, enter the **referenceUri** you recorded of the *Network Interface Card* named **ComputeNIC** created earlier in this lab.

    d.  In the **Terms and Conditions** section, select the *I agree to the terms and conditions stated above* checkbox.

    e.  Click the **Purchase** button.

13. Wait for the creation task to complete before moving on with this lab.

> **Review**: In this exercise, you deployed an ARM template that used the existing networking resources when creating a VM while maintaining the VM's hard disk as a separately managed resource.

## Exercise 3: Create Virtual Machine with Managed Disk using ARM

#### Task 1: Delete Previously Created Virtual Machine

1.  On the left side of the portal, click the **Resource groups** link.

2.  In the **Resource groups** blade, locate and select the **MOD06VMDK** *Resource Group* link.

3.  In the **MOD06VMDK** blade, select the **Virtual Machine** you recently created.

4.  In the **Virtual machine** blade, click the **Delete** button at the top of the blade.

5.  In the confirmation dialog, click the **Yes** button.

6.  Wait for the deletion task to complete before moving on with this lab.

#### Task 2: Deploy Virtual Machine using ARM Template

1.  On the left side of the portal, click the **Create a resource** link.

2.  At the top of the **New** blade, locate the **Search the Marketplace** field.

3.  Enter the text **Template Deployment** into the search field and press **Enter**.

4.  In the **Everything** search results blade, select the **Template deployment** result.

5.  In the **Template deployment** blade, click the **Create** button.

6.  In the **Custom deployment** blade, click the *Build your own template in the editor* link.

7.  In the **Edit template** blade, click the **Load file** link.

8.  In the **Open** file dialog that appears, navigate to the **Allfiles (F):\\Mod06\\Labfiles\\Starter** folder.

9.  Select the **manageddisk.json** file.

10. Click the **Open** button.

11. Back in the **Edit template** blade, click the **Save** button to persist the template.
12. Back in the **Custom deployment** blade, perform the following actions:

    a.  Leave the **Subscription** field set to it's default value.

    b.  In the **Resource group** section, locate the list and select the value **MOD06VMDK** option.

    c.  In the **Location** field, select the **East US** location.

    d.  In the **Network Interface Card Id** field, enter the **referenceUri** you recorded of the *Network Interface Card* named **ComputeNIC** created earlier in this lab.

    e.  In the **Terms and Conditions** section, select the *I agree to the terms and conditions stated above* checkbox.

    f.  Click the **Purchase** button.

13. Wait for the creation task to complete before moving on with this lab.

> **Review**: In this exercise, you deployed an ARM template that used the existing networking resources when creating a VM but used a new **Storage Account** for the VM's hard disk.

## Exercise 4: Cleanup Subscription

#### Task 1: Open Cloud Shell

1.  At the top of the portal, click the **Cloud Shell** icon to open a new shell instance.

2.  In the **Cloud Shell** command prompt at the bottom of the portal, type in the following command and press **Enter** to list all resource groups in the subscription:

    ```azurecli-interactive
    az group list
    ```

#### Task 2: Delete Resource Groups

1.  Type in the following command and press **Enter** to delete the **MOD06VMDK** *Resource Group*:

    ```azurecli-interactive
    az group delete --name MOD06VMDK --no-wait --yes
    ```

2.  Close the **Cloud Shell** prompt at the bottom of the portal.

#### Task 3: Close Active Applications

1.  Close the currently running **Microsoft Edge** application.

> **Review**: In this exercise, you "cleaned up your subscription" by removing the **Resource Groups** used in this lab.
