# Module 9: Managing Security and Identity for Azure Solutions

# Lab Answer Key: Deploying Services to Secure Secrets in Azure

## Before we start

1.  Ensure that you are logged in to your **Windows 10** Virtual Machine using the following credentials:

    -   **Username**: Admin

    -   **Password**: Pa55w.rd

2.  Observe the **Taskbar** located at the bottom of your **Windows 10** desktop. The Taskbar contains the icons for the common applications we will use in the labs:

    -   Microsoft Edge

    -   File Explorer

    -   [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/)

    -   [Microsoft Azure Storage Explorer](https://azure.microsoft.com/features/storage-explorer/)

    -   Bash on Ubuntu on Windows

    -   Windows PowerShell

    -   Microsoft Word 2016

    > **Note**: You can also find shortcuts to these applications on the **Desktop** and in the **Start Menu**.

## Exercise 1: Deploy Key Vault Resources

#### Task 1: Open the Azure Portal

1.  On the Taskbar, click the **Microsoft Edge** icon.

2.  In the open browser window, navigate to the **Azure Portal** (<https://portal.azure.com>).

3.  Enter the **email address** of your *Microsoft account*.

4.  Click the **Next** button.

5.  Enter the **password** for your *Microsoft account*.

6.  Click the **Sign in** button.

#### Task 2: Deploy Key Vault

1.  On the left side of the portal, click the **Create a resource** link.

2.  At the top of the **New** blade, locate the **Search the Marketplace** field.

3.  Enter the text **Key Vault** into the search field and press **Enter**.

4.  In the **Everything** search results blade, select the **Key Vault** result.

5.  In the **Key Vault** blade, click the **Create** button.

6.  In the **Create key vault** blade, perform the following actions:

    a.  In the **Name** field, enter a globally unique value. Record the name of this *Key Vault* instance as you will need to reference it later in this lab.

    b.  Leave the **Subscription** field set to its default value.

    c.  In the **Resource group** section, select the **Create new** option.

    d.  In the **Resource group** section, enter the value **MOD09KVST** into the empty field..

    e.  In the **Location** field, select the **East US** location.

    f.  Click the **Create** button.

7.  Wait for the creation task to complete before moving on with this lab.

#### Task 3: Add a Secret to the Key Vault using the Portal

1.  On the left side of the portal, click the **Resource groups** link.

2.  In the **Resource groups** blade, locate and select the **MOD09KVST** *Resource Group* link.

3.  In the **MOD09KVST** blade, select the **Key Vault** you recently created.

4.  In the **Key vault** blade, locate the **Settings** section on the left of the blade and click the **Secrets** link.

5.  In the **Secrets** pane, click the **Generate/Import** button at the top of the pane.

6.  In the **Create a secret** blade, perform the following actions:

    a.  In the **Upload options** list, select the **Manual** option.

    b.  In the **Name** field, enter the value **thirdPartyKey**.

    c.  In the **Value** field, enter the value **56d95961e597ed0f04b76e58**.

    d.  Leave all other fields set to their default values.

    e.  Click the **Create** button.

7.  Wait for the secret creation task to complete before moving on with this lab.

#### Task 4: Add a Secret to the Key Vault using the CLI

1.  At the top of the portal, click the **Cloud Shell** icon to open a new shell instance.

2.  In the **Cloud Shell** command prompt at the bottom of the portal, type in the following command, replace the **\[name of vault\]** placeholder with the name of your *Key Vault* instance, and then press **Enter** to list all resource groups in the subscription:

    ```azurecli-interactive
    az keyvault secret list --vault-name [name of vault]
    ```

    Make sure you replace the **\[name of vault\]** placeholder with the actual name of your **Key Vault** instance. For example, if the name of your instance is **examplekeyvault**, your command will look like this:

    ```azurecli-interactive
    az keyvault secret list --vault-name examplekeyvault
    ```

3.  Type in the following command to download a secret as a text file saved on your clouddrive instance:

    ```azurecli-interactive
    az keyvault secret download --vault-name [name of vault] --file clouddrive/secret.txt --name thirdPartyKey
    ```

    Make sure you replace the **\[name of vault\]** placeholder with the actual name of your **Key Vault** instance. For example, if the name of your instance is **examplekeyvault**, your command will look like this:

    ```azurecli-interactive
    az keyvault secret download --vault-name examplekeyvault --file clouddrive/secret.txt --name thirdPartyKey
    ```

4.  Type in the following command to view the contents of the saved file:

    ```shell
    cat clouddrive/secret.txt
    ```

5.  Type in the following command to create a new secret in your key vault:

    ```azurecli-interactive
    az keyvault secret set --vault-name [name of vault] --name firstPartyKey --value 56f8a55119845511c81de488
    ```

    Make sure you replace the **\[name of vault\]** placeholder with the actual name of your **Key Vault** instance. For example, if the name of your instance is **examplekeyvault**, your command will look like this:

    ```azurecli-interactive
    az keyvault secret set --vault-name examplekeyvault --name firstPartyKey --value 56f8a55119845511c81de488
    ```

6.  Type in the following command to

    ```azurecli-interactive
    az keyvault secret list --vault-name [name of vault] --query "[*].{Id:id,Created:attributes.created}" --out table
    ```

    Make sure you replace the **\[name of vault\]** placeholder with the actual name of your **Key Vault** instance. For example, if the name of your instance is **examplekeyvault**, your command will look like this:

    ```azurecli-interactive
    az keyvault secret list --vault-name examplekeyvault --query "[*].{Id:id,Created:attributes.created}" --out table
    ```

7.  Close the **Cloud Shell** prompt at the bottom of the portal.

#### Task 5: Add a Secret to the Key Vault using ARM

1.  On the left side of the portal, click the **New** link.

2.  At the top of the **New** blade, locate the **Search the Marketplace** field.

3.  Enter the text **Template Deployment** into the search field and press **Enter**.

4.  In the **Everything** search results blade, select the **Template deployment** result.

5.  In the **Template deployment** blade, click the **Create** button.

6.  In the **Custom deployment** blade, click the *Build your own template in the editor* link.

7.  In the **Edit template** blade, locate the text editor and delete the existing template content.

8.  Copy and paste the following ARM template into the template editor:

    ```json
    {
        "$schema": "http://schema.management.azure.com/schemas/2015-01-01/deploymentTemplate.json#",
        "contentVersion": "1.0.0.0",
        "parameters": {
            "vaultName": {
                "type": "string"
            }
        },
        "variables": {
            "secretName": "vmPassword"
        },
        "resources": [
            {
                "apiVersion": "2015-06-01",
                "type": "Microsoft.KeyVault/vaults/secrets",
                "name": "[concat(parameters('vaultName'), '/', variables('secretName'))]",
                "properties": {
                    "contentType": "text/plain",
                    "value": "StudentPa$$w.rd"
                }
            }
        ]
    }
    ```

9.  Click the **Save** button to persist the template.

10. Back in the **Custom deployment** blade, perform the following actions:

    a.  Leave the **Subscription** field set to it's default value.

    b.  In the **Resource group** section, locate the dropdown list and select the **MOD09KVST** option.

    c.  In the **Vault Name** field, enter the name of your **Key Vault** instance that you recorded earlier in this lab.

    d.  In the **Terms and Conditions** section, select the *I agree to the terms and conditions stated above* checkbox.

    e.  Click the **Purchase** button.

11. Wait for the creation task to complete before moving on with this lab.

12. On the left side of the portal, click the **New** link.

13. At the top of the **New** blade, locate the **Search the Marketplace** field.

14. Enter the text **Template Deployment** into the search field and press **Enter**.

15. In the **Everything** search results blade, select the **Template deployment** result.

16. In the **Template deployment** blade, click the **Create** button.

17. In the **Custom deployment** blade, click the *Build your own template in the editor* link.

18. In the **Edit template** blade, locate the text editor and delete the existing template content.

19. Copy and paste the following ARM template into the template editor:

    ```json
    {
        "$schema": "http://schema.management.azure.com/schemas/2015-01-01/deploymentTemplate.json#",
        "contentVersion": "1.0.0.0",
        "parameters": {
            "vaultName": {
                "type": "string"
            }
        },
        "variables": {
            "secretName": "storageConnectionString",
            "storageName": "[concat('stor', uniqueString(resourceGroup().id))]"
        },
        "resources": [
            {
                "apiVersion": "2017-10-01",
                "type": "Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts",
                "name": "[variables('storageName')]",
                "location": "[resourceGroup().location]",
                "kind": "Storage",
                "sku": {
                    "name": "Standard_LRS"
                },
                "properties": {                
                }
            },
            {
                "apiVersion": "2015-06-01",
                "type": "Microsoft.KeyVault/vaults/secrets",
                "name": "[concat(parameters('vaultName'), '/', variables('secretName'))]",
                "dependsOn": [
                    "[resourceId('Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts', variables('storageName'))]"
                ],
                "properties": {
                    "contentType": "text/plain",
                    "value": "[concat('DefaultEndpointsProtocol=https;AccountName=', variables('storageName'), ';', 'AccountKey=', listKeys(resourceId('Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts', variables('storageName')), providers('Microsoft.Storage', 'storageAccounts').apiVersions[0]).keys[0].value, ';')]"
                }
            }
        ]
    }
    ```

20. Click the **Save** button to persist the template.

21. Back in the **Custom deployment** blade, perform the following actions:

    a.  Leave the **Subscription** field set to its default value.

    b.  In the **Resource group** section, locate the dropdown list and select the **MOD09KVST** option.

    c.  In the **Vault Name** field, enter the name of your **Key Vault** instance that you recorded earlier in this lab.

    d.  In the **Terms and Conditions** section, select the *I agree to the terms and conditions stated above* checkbox.

    e.  Click the **Purchase** button.

22. Wait for the creation task to complete before moving on with this lab.

#### Task 6: View Key Vault Secrets

1.  On the left side of the portal, click the **Resource groups** link.

2.  In the **Resource groups** blade, locate and select the **MOD09KVST** *Resource Group* link.

3.  In the **MOD09KVST** blade, select the **Key Vault** you recently created.

4.  In the **Key vault** blade, locate the **Settings** section on the left of the blade and click the **Secrets** link.

5.  In the **Secrets** pane, view the list of secrets created during this lab.

    > **Note**: If a specific secret is not displayed, you may need to click the **Refresh** button at the top of the pane.

6.  Click the entry for the **storageConnectionString** secret.

7.  In the **Versions** blade that appears, click the latest version of the secret within the **CURRENT VERSION** section.

8.  In the **Secret Version** blade that appears, click the **Show secret value** button.

9.  Observe the value of the secret.

> **Review**: In this exercise, you created a **Key Vault** instance and used various methods to add keys to the key vault.

## Exercise 2: Deploy Virtual Machine using Key Vault Secret

#### Task 1: Retrive your Key Vault Resource Id

1.  At the top of the portal, click the **Cloud Shell** icon to open a new shell instance.

2.  In the **Cloud Shell** command prompt at the bottom of the portal, type in the following command, replace the **\[name of vault\]** placeholder with the name of your *Key Vault* instance, and then press **Enter** to list all resource groups in the subscription:

    ```azurecli-interactive
    az keyvault list --query [*].[id] --out tsv
    ```

3.  Record the output value from the command. This is the **resource id** for your **Key Vault** instance.

#### Task 2: Edit the VM Parameters File

1.  On the Taskbar, click the **File Explorer** icon.

2.  In the **File Explorer** window that appears, navigate to the **Allfiles (F):\\Mod09\\Labfiles\\Starter** folder.

3.  Right-click the **vaultvm.parameters.json** file and select the **Open with Code** option to start the **Visual Studio Code** application.

4.  In the **Visual Studio Code** window that appears, observe the content of the JSON file.

5.  Locate the following string in your ARM template JSON content:

    ```json
    /subscriptions/<subscription-id>/resourceGroups/<resource-group>/providers/Microsoft.KeyVault/vaults/<vault-name>
    ```

6.  Replace that exact string with the **resource id** you copied earlier in this lab for your **Key Vault** instance.

    For example, if your **subscription id** is **6e97419f-3274-aca4-6ba6-eea795fdff51**, your **resource group** is **MOD09KVST** and your **vault name** is **examplekeyvault**, your **resource id** would look like this:

    ```json
    /subscriptions/6e97419f-3274-aca4-6ba6-eea795fdff51/resourceGroups/MOD09KVST/providers/Microsoft.KeyVault/vaults/examplekeyvault
    ```

    Your final ARM parameter file would look like this:

    ```json
    {
        "$schema": "https://schema.management.azure.com/schemas/2015-01-01/deploymentParameters.json#",
        "contentVersion": "1.0.0.0",
        "parameters": {
            "password": {
                "reference": {
                    "keyVault": {
                        "id": "/subscriptions/6e97419f-3274-aca4-6ba6-eea795fdff51/resourceGroups/MOD09KVST/providers/Microsoft.KeyVault/vaults/examplekeyvault"
                    },
                    "secretName": "vmPassword"
                }
            }
        }
    }
    ```

7.  Click the **File** menu and then select the **Save** option to save the changes made to the template.

8.  At the top of the **Visual Studio Code** window, click the **File** menu and select the **Close Window** option.

9.  Close the **File Explorer** window.

10. Return to the **Microsoft Edge** window with the **Azure Portal** open.

#### Task 3: Upload the ARM Template and Parameters Files

1.  In the **Cloud Shell** command prompt, type in the following command and press **Enter** to view the list of external shares mounted in your bash shell:

    ```shell
    df --type=cifs
    ```

2.  The result of the query should be a single file share that is *Mounted on* the **/usr/** directory. The name of the file share should be in the following format:

    ```shell
    //<storage account name>.file.core.windows.net/shell
    ```

3.  Record the name of the **Storage account** associated with the file share.

    For example, if the storage account's name is **cseast123**, the file share name would be **//cseast123.file.core.windows.net/shell**

4.  Close the **Cloud Shell** prompt at the bottom of the portal.

5.  On the left side of the portal, click the **All resources** link.

6.  In the **All resources** blade, locate and select the **Storage account** name that you recorded earlier in this task.

7.  In the **Storage account** blade, click the **Files** link to view the list of file shares.

8.  In the **Files** blade, click the **shell** file share in the list of shares.

9.  In the **File share** blade, click the **Upload** button.

10. In the **Upload files** popup that appears, perform the following actions:

    a.  In the **Files** field, click the *blue folder* button to the right of the field.

    b.  In the **Open** file dialog that appears, navigate to the **Allfiles (F):\\Mod09\\Labfiles\\Starter** folder.

    c.  Select the **vaultvm.json** file.

    d.  Click the **Open** button to close the dialog and return to the **Upload files** popup.

    e.  Click the **Upload** button.

11. Return to the **Upload files** blade, and click the **Upload** button again.

12. In the **Upload files** popup that appears, perform the following actions:

    a.  In the **Files** field, click the *blue folder* button to the right of the field.

    b.  In the **Open** file dialog that appears, navigate to the **Allfiles (F):\\Mod09\\Labfiles\\Starter** folder.

    c.  Select the **vaultvm.parameters.json** file.

    d.  Click the **Open** button to close the dialog and return to the **Upload files** popup.

    e.  Click the **Upload** button.

#### Task 4: Configure Key Vault for ARM Template Deployment

1.  On the left side of the portal, click the **Resource groups** link.

2.  In the **Resource groups** blade, locate and select the **MOD09KVST** *Resource Group* link.

3.  In the **MOD09KVST** blade, select the **Key Vault** you recently created.

4.  In the **Key vault** blade, locate the **Settings** section on the left of the blade and click the **Access policies** link.

5.  In the **Access policies** pane, click the **Click to show advanced access policies** link.

6.  Ensure that the checkbox for **Enable access to Azure Resource Manager for template deployment** option is selected.

7.  Click the **Save** button at the top of the pane.

8.  Wait for the update operation to complete before moving on with the lab.

#### Task 5: Deploy a Linux Virtual Machine using a Key Vault Secret for the Password.

1.  At the top of the portal, click the **Cloud Shell** icon to open a new shell instance.

2.  In the **Cloud Shell** command prompt at the bottom of the portal, type in the following command and press **Enter** to deploy the ARM template with the specified parameters file:

    ```azurecli-interactive
    az group deployment create --resource-group MOD09KVST --template-file clouddrive/vaultvm.json --parameters @clouddrive/vaultvm.parameters.json
    ```

3.  Wait for the creation task to complete before moving on with this lab.

> **Review**: In this exercise, you deployed a new Linux Virtual Machine using a password stored in an **Azure Key Vault** instance.

## Exercise 3: Cleanup Subscription

#### Task 1: Open Cloud Shell

1.  In the **Cloud Shell** command prompt at the bottom of the portal, type in the following command and press **Enter** to list all resource groups in the subscription:

    ```azurecli-interactive
    az group list
    ```

#### Task 2: Delete Resource Groups

1.  Type in the following command and press **Enter** to delete the **MOD09KVST** *Resource Group*:

    ```azurecli-interactive
    az group delete --name MOD09KVST --no-wait --yes
    ```

2.  Close the **Cloud Shell** prompt at the bottom of the portal.

#### Task 3: Close Active Applications

1.  Close the currently running **Microsoft Edge** application.

> **Review**: In this exercise, you "cleaned up your subscription" by removing the **Resource Groups** used in this lab.
