# Module 4: Creating Managed Server Applications in Azure

# Lab Answer Key: Deploying Managed Server Workloads to Azure

## Before we start

1.  Ensure that you are logged in to your **Windows 10** Virtual Machine using the following credentials:

    -   **Username**: Admin

    -   **Password**: Pa55w.rd

2.  Observe the **Taskbar** located at the bottom of your **Windows 10** desktop. The Taskbar contains the icons for the common applications we will use in the labs:

    -   Microsoft Edge

    -   File Explorer

    -   [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/)

    -   [Microsoft Azure Storage Explorer](https://azure.microsoft.com/features/storage-explorer/)

    -   Bash on Ubuntu on Windows

    -   Windows PowerShell

    -   Microsoft Word 2016

    > **Note**: You can also find shortcuts to these applications on the **Desktop** and in the **Start Menu**.

## Exercise 1: Create Azure Container Service (ACS) Cluster

#### Task 1: Open the Azure Portal

1.  On the Taskbar, click the **Microsoft Edge** icon.

2.  In the open browser window, navigate to the **Azure Portal** (<https://portal.azure.com>).

3.  Enter the **email address** of your *Microsoft account*.

4.  Click the **Next** button.

5.  Enter the **password** for your *Microsoft account*.

6.  Click the **Sign in** button.

#### Task 2: Create Docker Swarm ACS Cluster using Cloud Shell

1.  At the top of the portal, click the **Cloud Shell** icon to open a new shell instance.

2.  In the **Cloud Shell** command prompt at the bottom of the portal, type in the following command and press **Enter** to create a new **Resource Group**:

    ```azurecli-interactive
        az group create --name MOD04ACSC --location eastus
    ```

3.  Type in the following command and press **Enter** to create a new Docker Swarm cluster with a single agent and automatically generated *SSH keys*:

    ```azurecli-interactive
        az acs create --name DockerSwarmCluster --orchestrator-type Swarm --resource-group MOD04ACSC --agent-count 1 --generate-ssh-keys
    ```

4.  Wait for the ACS creation operation to complete.

    > **Note**: This operation can take up to five minutes.

#### Task 3: Configure Tunnel Connection to ACS Cluster using SSH

1.  Type in the following command and press **Enter** to get a list of **Public IP Addresses** in your **Resource Group** that contain the term **master** in their name:

    ```azurecli-interactive
        az network public-ip list --resource-group MOD04ACSC --query "[?contains(name, 'master')].{Name:name,IPAddress:ipAddress}" -o table
    ```

2.  The results of the query will look like this:

    ```shell
        Name                                                      IPAddress
        --------------------------------------------------------  ------------
        swarm-master-ip-dockerswar-mod04acsc-e91967mgmt-1FE2477D  52.170.19.88
    ```

3.  Record the value of the **IPAddress** field in the query results. This is the *IP Address* of your *Docker Swarm* **master**.

4.  Type in the following command and press **Enter** to get a list of **Public IP Addresses** in your **Resource Group** that contain the term **agent** in their name:

    ```azurecli-interactive
        az network public-ip list --resource-group MOD04ACSC --query "[?contains(name, 'agent')].{Name:name,IPAddress:ipAddress}" -o table
    ```

5.  The results of the query will look like this:

    ```shell
        Name                                                      IPAddress
        --------------------------------------------------------  ------------
        swarm-agent-ip-dockerswar-mod04acsc-e91967agent-1FE2477D  52.170.22.39
    ```

6.  Record the value of the **IPAddress** field in the query results. This is the *IP Address* of your *Docker Swarm* **agent pool**.

7.  Type in the following command and press **Enter** to create a SSH tunnel connection to the Docker Swarm **master** using the *IP Address* you recorded earlier:

    ```shell
        ssh -p 2200 -fNL 2375:localhost:2375 azureuser@[Master IP Address]
    ```

    Make sure you replace the **\[Master IP Address\]** placeholder with the actual IP Address of the Docker Swarm master. For example, if your master IP Address is **52.170.19.88**, your command will look like this:

    ```shell
        ssh -p 2200 -fNL 2375:localhost:2375 azureuser@52.170.19.88
    ```

8.  You will see a prompt indicating that the authenticity of the host can't be established. Type in **yes** and press **Enter** to continue connecting.

> **Review**: In this exercise, you created a new Docker Swarm cluster and connected to that cluster using a SSH tunnel.

## Exercise 2: Deploy Docker Image to Azure Container Service (ACS) Cluster

#### Task 1: Deploy a Basic Docker Image to ACS using Tunnel Connection

1.  Still within the Cloud Shell, type in the following command and press **Enter** to set an environment variable to make it easier to run *docker* commands:

    ```shell
        export DOCKER_HOST=:2375
    ```

2.  Type in the following command and press **Enter** to validate that docker commands work with your Docker Swarm cluster:

    ```shell
        docker info
    ```

3.  Type in the following command and press **Enter** to run the **nginx** web server in a container within your Docker Swarm cluster:

    ```shell
        docker run -d -p 80:80 --name webserver nginx
    ```

4.  In a new browser tab, navigate to the \*\*agent pool\* *IP address* you copied earlier in this lab.

5.  Observe the nginx web server placeholder webpage.

6.  Close the additional browser tab and return to the browser tab with the **Azure Portal** currently active.

7.  Returning to the Cloud Shell, type in the following command and press **Enter** to list all running containers:

    ```shell
        docker ps
    ```

8.  Type in the following command and press **Enter** to stop the **webserver** container:

    ```shell
        docker stop webserver
    ```

9.  Type in the following command and press **Enter** to remove the **webserver** container:

    ```shell
        docker rm webserver
    ```

10. Type in the following command and press **Enter** to list all running containers:

    ```shell
        docker ps
    ```

11. Close the **Cloud Shell** prompt at the bottom of the portal.

> **Review**: In this exercise, you deployed a Docker image (**nginx**) to the Azure Container Services' hosted Docker Swarm.

## Exercise 3: Deploy Docker Image to Azure Container Instance

#### Task 1: Create Azure Container Instance with Docker Hub Image

1.  On the left side of the portal, click the **Create a resource** link.

2.  At the top of the **New** blade, locate the **Search the Marketplace** field.

3.  Enter the text **Container Instance** into the search field and press **Enter**.

4.  In the **Everything** search results blade, select the **Container Instances** result.

5.  In the **Container Instances** blade, click the **Create** button.

6.  In the **Create Container Instance** blade, select the **Basics** option to begin configuring the container instance by performing the following actions:

    a.  In the **Container Name** field, enter the value **webapplication**.

    b.  In the **Container image type** section, select the **Public** option.

    c.  In the **Container image** field, enter the value **microsoft/aci-helloworld**.

    d.  Leave the **Subscription** field set to its default value.

    e.  In the **Resource group** section, select the **Create new** option.

    f.  In the **Resource group** section, enter the value **MOD04ACIN** into the empty field..

    g.  In the **Location** field, select the **East US** location.

    h.  Click the **OK** button.

7.  The **Create Container Instance** blade will move on to the **Configuration** option, continue configuring the container instance by performing the following actions:

    a.  In the **OS Type** section, select the **Linux** option.

    b.  In the **Number of cores** list, select the **2** option.

    c.  In the **Memory (GB)** field, enter the value **4**.

    d.  In the **Public IP address** section, select the **Yes** option.

    e.  In the **Port** field, enter the value **80**.

    f.  Click the **OK** button.

8.  The **Create Container Instance** blade will move on to the **Summary** option. Confirm the details of your new **Azure Container Instance** and click the **OK** button.

9.  Wait for the creation task to complete before moving on with this lab.

#### Task 2: Validate Container Deployment

1.  On the left side of the portal, click the **Resource groups** link.

2.  In the **Resource groups** blade, locate and select the **MOD04ACIN** *Resource Group* link.

3.  In the **MOD04ACIN** blade, select the **Container Group** you recently created.

4.  In the **Container group** blade, locate the **IP address** field at the top of the blade. Copy the *value* of this field.

5.  In a new browser tab, navigate to the IP address you copied in the previous step.

6.  Observe the home page of the running Node.js web application.

7.  Close the additional browser tab and return to the browser tab with the **Azure Portal** currently active.

> **Review**: In this exercise, you used an **Azure Container Instance** to deploy a single Docker container.

## Exercise 4: Cleanup Subscription

#### Task 1: Open Cloud Shell

1.  At the top of the portal, click the **Cloud Shell** icon to open a new shell instance.

2.  In the **Cloud Shell** command prompt at the bottom of the portal, type in the following command and press **Enter** to list all resource groups in the subscription:

    ```azurecli-interactive
        az group list
    ```

#### Task 2: Delete Resource Groups

1.  Type in the following command and press **Enter** to delete the **MOD04ACSC** *Resource Group*:

    ```azurecli-interactive
        az group delete --name MOD04ACSC --no-wait --yes
    ```

2.  Type in the following command and press **Enter** to delete the **MOD04ACIN** *Resource Group*:

    ```azurecli-interactive
        az group delete --name MOD04ACIN --no-wait --yes
    ```

3.  Close the **Cloud Shell** prompt at the bottom of the portal.

#### Task 3: Close Active Applications

1.  Close the currently running **Microsoft Edge** application.

> **Review**: In this exercise, you "cleaned up your subscription" by removing the **Resource Groups** used in this lab.