# Module 7: Comparing Database Options in Azure

# Lab Answer Key: Deploying Database Instances in Azure

## Before we start

1.  Ensure that you are logged in to your **Windows 10** Virtual Machine using the following credentials:

    -   **Username**: Admin

    -   **Password**: Pa55w.rd

2.  Observe the **Taskbar** located at the bottom of your **Windows 10** desktop. The Taskbar contains the icons for the common applications we will use in the labs:

    -   Microsoft Edge

    -   File Explorer

    -   [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/)

    -   [Microsoft Azure Storage Explorer](https://azure.microsoft.com/features/storage-explorer/)

    -   Bash on Ubuntu on Windows

    -   Windows PowerShell

    -   Microsoft Word 2016

    > **Note**: You can also find shortcuts to these applications on the **Desktop** and in the **Start Menu**.

## Exercise 1: Deploy a Cosmos DB Database Instance

#### Task 1: Open the Azure Portal

1.  On the Taskbar, click the **Microsoft Edge** icon.

2.  In the open browser window, navigate to the **Azure Portal** (<https://portal.azure.com>).

3.  Enter the **email address** of your *Microsoft account*.

4.  Click the **Next** button.

5.  Enter the **password** for your *Microsoft account*.

6.  Click the **Sign in** button.

#### Task 2: Create Cosmos DB Database

1.  On the left side of the portal, click the **Create a resource** link.

2.  At the top of the **New** blade, locate the **Search the Marketplace** field.

3.  Enter the text **Cosmos** into the search field and press **Enter**.

4.  In the **Everything** search results blade, select the **Azure Cosmos DB** result.

5.  In the **Azure Cosmos DB** blade, click the **Create** button.

6.  In the new **Azure Cosmos DB Account** blade, perform the following actions:

    a.  In the *Account Name** field, enter a globally unique value.

    b.  In the **API** list, select the **Core (SQL)** option.

    c.  Leave the **Subscription** field set to its default value.

    d.  In the **Resource group** section, select the **Create new** option.

    e.  In the **Resource group** section, enter the value **MOD07CSDB** into the empty field.

    f.  In the **Location** field, select the **East US** location.

    g.  Click the **Review + create** button.

    h.  Click the **Create** button.

7.  Wait for the creation task to complete before moving on with this lab.

8.  On the left side of the portal, click the **Resource groups** link.

9.  In the **Resource groups** blade, locate and select the **MOD07CSDB** *Resource Group* link.

10. In the **MOD07CSDB** blade, select the **Azure Cosmos DB** account you recently created.

11. In the **Azure Cosmos DB** blade, locate and click the **Overview** link on the left side of the blade.

12. At the top of the **Azure Cosmos DB** blade, click the **Add Collection** button.

13. In the **Add Collection** popup, perform the following actions:

    a.  In the **Database id** field, enter the value **FinancialClubDatabase**.

    b.  In the **Collection id** field, enter the value **MemberCollection**.

    c.  In the **Storage capacity** section, select the **Fixed (10 GB)** option.

    d.  In the **Throughput** field, enter thev alue **400**.

    e.  Click the **OK** button.

14. Wait for the creation of the new **database** and **collection** to finish before moving on with this lab.

15. On the left side of the **Azure Cosmos DB** blade, locate the **Settings** section and click the **Keys** link.

16. In the **Keys** pane, record the values in the **URI** and **Primary Key** fields. You will use these values later in this lab.

#### Task 3: Create and Query Documents in Cosmos DB

1.  On the left side of the **Azure Cosmos DB** blade, locate and click the **Data Explorer** link.

2.  In the **Data Explorer** pane, locate the **Collections** section and expand the **FinancialClubDatabase** node.

3.  Still within the **Collections** section, select the **MemberCollection** node located underneath the **FinancialClubDatabase** node.

4.  Click the **New SQL Query** button at the top of the **Data Explorer** pane.

5.  In the new **Query** tab that opened, locate the query editor. Replace the existing query with the following query:

    ```sql
    SELECT 
        *
    FROM
        coll
    ```

6.  Click the **Execute Query** button at the top of the query editor.

7.  Within the **Collections** section, expand the **MemberCollection** node.

8.  Still within the **Collections** section, select the **Documents** node located underneath the **MemberCollection** node.

9.  In the new **Documents** tab that opened, click the **New Document** button at the top of the tab.

10. In the **Documents** tab, locate the document editor. Replace the existing document with the following document:

    ```json
    {
        "firstName": "Pennington",
        "lastName": "Oneal",
        "age": 26,
        "salary": 90000.00,
        "company": "Veraq",
        "isVested": false
    }
    ```

11. Click the **Save** button at the top of the **Documents** tab.

12. In the **Documents** tab, click the **New Document** button at the top of the tab.

13. In the **Documents** tab, locate the document editor. Replace the existing document with the following document:

    ```json
    {
        "firstName": "Suzanne",
        "lastName": "Oneal"
    }
    ```

14. Click the **Save** button at the top of the **Documents** tab.

15. Click the **New SQL Query** button at the top of the **Data Explorer** pane.

16. In the new **Query** tab that opened, locate the query editor. Replace the existing query with the following query:

    ```sql
    SELECT 
        *
    FROM
        coll
    ```

17. Click the **Execute Query** button at the top of the query editor.

18. In the query editor, replace the existing query with the following query:

    ```sql
    SELECT 
        coll.id, 
        coll.firstName, 
        coll.lastName,
        coll.isVested
    FROM 
        coll
    WHERE
        IS_DEFINED(coll.isVested)
    ```

19. Click the **Execute Query** button at the top of the query editor.

20. In the query editor, replace the existing query with the following query:

    ```sql
    SELECT 
        coll.id, 
        coll.firstName, 
        coll.lastName,
        coll.age
    FROM 
        coll
    WHERE
        coll.age > 20
    ```

21. Click the **Execute Query** button at the top of the query editor.

22. In the query editor, replace the existing query with the following query:

    ```sql
    SELECT VALUE 
        coll.id 
    FROM
        coll
    ```

23. Click the **Execute Query** button at the top of the query editor.

24. In the query editor, replace the existing query with the following query:

    ```sql
    SELECT VALUE { 
        "badgeNumber": SUBSTRING(coll.id, 0, 8),
        "departmentId": SUBSTRING(coll.id, 9, 4),
        "fullName": CONCAT(coll.firstName, " ", coll.lastName)
    } FROM coll
    ```

25. Click the **Execute Query** button at the top of the query editor.

> **Review**: In this exercise, you created a new Cosmos DB account and populated that account with a **database**, **collection**, and **document**.

## Exercise 2: Deploy Application using Cosmos DB

#### Task 1: Deploy API App and Code using ARM and GitHub

1.  On the left side of the portal, click the **Create a resource** link.

2.  At the top of the **New** blade, locate the **Search the Marketplace** field.

3.  Enter the text **Template Deployment** into the search field and press **Enter**.

4.  In the **Everything** search results blade, select the **Template deployment** result.

5.  In the **Template deployment** blade, click the **Create** button.

6.  In the **Custom deployment** blade, click the *Build your own template in the editor* link.

7.  In the **Edit template** blade, click the **Load file** link.

8.  In the **Open** file dialog that appears, navigate to the **Allfiles (F):\\Mod07\\Labfiles\\Starter** folder.

9.  Select the **api.json** file.

10. Click the **Open** button.

11. Back in the **Edit template** blade, click the **Save** button to persist the template.

12. Back in the **Custom deployment** blade, perform the following actions:

    a.  Leave the **Subscription** field set to its default value.

    b.  In the **Resource group** section, select the value **MOD07CSDB** from the list.

    c.  In the **Terms and Conditions** section, select the *I agree to the terms and conditions stated above* checkbox.

    d.  Click the **Purchase** button.

13. Wait for the deployment task to complete before moving on with this lab.

    > **Note**: Deployment from source control can take up to ten minutes.

#### Task 2: Validate API App

1.  On the left side of the portal, click the **Resource groups** link.

2.  In the **Resource groups** blade, locate and select the **MOD07CSDB** *Resource Group* link.

3.  In the **MOD07CSDB** blade, select the **Api App** you most recently created.

4.  In the **Api App** blade, locate the **Settings** section and click the **Application Settings** link.

5.  In the **Application Settings** pane, scroll down and locate the **App Settings** section. Perform the following actions:

    a.  Update the value of the **CosmosDB:AuthorizationKey** setting to the value of the **Primary Key** field from the **Cosmos DB** instance you created earlier in this lab.

    b.  Update the value of the **CosmosDB:EndpointUrl** setting to the value of the **Uri** field from the **Cosmos DB** instance you created earlier in this lab.

    c.  Click the **Save** button at the top of the pane.

6.  In the left-side of the **Api App** blade, locate and click the **Overview** link.

7.  Click the **Restart** button at the top of the blade. Wait a couple of minutes for the *Web App* instance to restart\*.

    > **Note**: Due to an issue between Microsoft Edge and Swagger, we recommend you to do the following steps in Microsoft Internet Explorer

8.  Click the **Browse** button at the top of the blade.

    > **Note**: If you click the browse button before the *Web App* has fully restarted, you may see an error message. Simply refresh your browser until the *Web App* is running again.

9.  In the **Swagger UI** homepage, click the link to expand the section for the **/Get** call using the *GET* HTTP Verb.

10. Locate the **Response Messages** section. Click the **Try it out!** button.

11. Observe the results of the request.

12. Back in the **Swagger UI** homepage, click the link to expand the section for the **/Populate** call using the *POST* HTTP Verb.

13. Locate the **Parameters** section. In the **Value** field for the **options** parameter, paste in the following JSON content:

    ```json
    {
        "quantity": 50
    }
    ```

14. Locate the **Response Messages** section. Click the **Try it out!** button.

15. Observe the results of the request.

16. Back in the **Swagger UI** homepage, click the link to expand the section for the **/Get** call using the *GET* HTTP Verb.

17. Locate the **Response Messages** section. Click the **Try it out!** button.

18. Observe the results of the request.

19. Close the additional browser tab and return to the browser tab with the **Azure Portal** currently active.

> **Review**: In this exercise, you created a new API App that uses the .NET Core DocumentDB SDK to connect to Azure Cosmos DB and manipulate documents.

## Exercise 3: Connect Cosmos DB to Azure Search

#### Task 1: Create Azure Search Instance

1.  On the left side of the portal, click the **Create a resource** link.

2.  At the top of the **New** blade, locate the **Search the Marketplace** field.

3.  Enter the text **Search** into the search field and press **Enter**.

4.  In the **Everything** search results blade, select the **Azure Search** result.

5.  In the **Azure Search** blade, click the **Create** button.

6.  In the **New Search Service** blade, perform the following actions:

    a.  In the **URL** field, enter a globally unique value.

    b.  Leave the **Subscription** field set to its default value.

    c.  In the **Resource group** section, locate the dropdown list and select the **MOD07CSDB** option.

    d.  In the **Location** field, select the **East US** location.

    e.  Click the **Pricing tier** option.

    f.  In the **Choose your pricing tier** blade, select the **Free** option and then click the **Select** button.

    g.  Click the **Create** button.

7.  Wait for the creation task to complete before moving on with this lab.

8.  In the **Resource groups** blade, locate and select the **MOD07CSDB** *Resource Group* link.

9.  In the **MOD07CSDB** blade, select the **Azure Search** instance you recently created.

10. In the **Search Service** blade, locate the **Settings** section and click the **Keys** link.

11. In the **Keys** pane, record the value of the **PRIMARY ADMIN KEY** field. Additionally, record the name of your Azure Search instance. You will use these values later in this lab.

#### Task 2: Index Cosmos DB Data in Azure Search

1.  On the left side of the portal, click the **Resource groups** link.

2.  In the **Resource groups** blade, locate and select the **MOD07CSDB** *Resource Group* link.

3.  In the **MOD07CSDB** blade, select the **Azure Cosmos DB account** you recently created.

4.  In the **Azure Cosmos DB** blade, locate the **Settings** section on the left side of the blade and click the **Add Azure Search** link.

5.  In the **Import data** blade, select the **Search service** option to begin configuring the search indexer by performing the following actions:

    a.  Select the new search instance you created earlier in the lab.

6.  The **Import data** blade will move on to the **Data Source** option. Continue configuring the search indexer by performing the following actions:

    > **Note**: The **CosmosDB** option should already be selected in the **Data Source** blade

    a.  In the **Name** field, enter the value **cosmosdata**.

    b.  In the **Database** list, select the **FinancialClubDatabase** option.

    c.  in the **Collection** list, select the **MemberCollection** option.

    d.  In the **Query** field, enter the following SQL query:

    ```sql
    SELECT 
        coll.id,
        coll.firstName,
        coll.lastName,
        coll.age,
        coll.salary,
        coll.company,
        coll.isVested,
        coll._ts
    FROM
        coll
    WHERE
        coll._ts >= @HighWaterMark
    ORDER BY coll._ts
    ```

    e.  Ensure that the \*\*Query results ordered by \_ts\*\* checkbox is selected.

    f.  Click the **OK** button.

7.  The **Import data** blade will move on to the **Index** option, continue configuring the search indexer by performing the following actions:

    a.  In the **Index name** field, enter the value **memberindex**.

    b.  In the **Key** list, select the **id** option.

    c.  For the **id** field in the table, ensure that the **Retrievable**, **Filterable**, and **Sortable** options are selected.

    d.  For the **firstName** field in the table, ensure that the **Retrievable**, **Sortable**, and **Searchable** options are selected.

    e.  For the **lastName** field in the table, ensure that the **Retrievable**, **Sortable**, and **Searchable** options are selected.

    f.  For the **age** field in the table, ensure that the **Retrievable**, **Filterable**, **Sortable**, and **Facetable** options are selected.

    g.  For the **salary** field in the table, ensure that the **Retrievable**, **Filterable**, **Sortable**, and **Facetable** options are selected.

    h.  For the **company** field in the table, ensure that the **Retrievable**, **Facetable**, and **Searchable** options are selected.

    i.  For the **isVested** field in the table, ensure that the **Retrievable**, **Filterable**, **Sortable**, **Facetable** options are selected.

    j.  Click the **OK** button.

8.  The **Import data** blade will move on to the **Indexer** option, continue configuring the search indexer by performing the following actions:

    a.  In the **Name** field, enter the value **cosmosmemberindexer**.

    b.  In the **Schedule** section, select the **Custom** option.

    c.  In the **Interval** field, enter the value **5**.

    d.  In the **Start time (UTC)** field, enter the value **2016-01-01**.

    e.  Click the **OK** button.

9.  Back in the **Create Azure Container Instance** blade, click the **OK** button.

#### Task 3: Validate API App

1.  On the left side of the portal, click the **Resource groups** link.

2.  In the **Resource groups** blade, locate and select the **MOD07CSDB** *Resource Group* link.

3.  In the **MOD07CSDB** blade, select the **Api App** you most recently created.

4.  In the **Api App** blade, locate the **Settings** section and click the **Application Settings** link.

5.  In the **Application Settings** pane, scroll down and locate the **App Settings** section. Perform the following actions:

    a.  Update the value of the **Search:AccountName** setting to the value of the **Name** of the **Azure Search** instance you created earlier in this lab.

    b.  Update the value of the **Search:QueryKey** setting to the value of the **Primary Key** field from **Azure Search** instance you created earlier in this lab.

    c.  Click the **Save** button at the top of the pane.

6.  In the left-side of the **Api App** blade, locate and click the **Overview** link.

7.  Click the **Restart** button at the top of the blade. Wait a couple of minutes for the *Web App* instance to restart.

8.  Click the **Browse** button at the top of the blade.

    > **Note**: If you click the browse button before the *Web App* has fully restarted, you may see an error message. Simply refresh your browser until the *Web App* is running again.

9.  In the **Swagger UI** homepage, locate the dropdown list with the content **Cosmos DB API v.1.0.0** at the top of the page. Select the **Cosmos DB API v.2.0.0** option from the list.

10. Click the link to expand the section for the **/Documents/search** call using the *GET* HTTP Verb.

11. Locate the **Parameters** section. In the **Value** field for the **query** parameter, enter the following value:

        ```
        Oneal
        ```

12. Locate the **Response Messages** section. Click the **Try it out!** button.

13. Observe the results of the request.

14. Back in the **Parameters** section. In the **Value** field for the **query** parameter, enter the following value:

        ```
        penn*
        ```

15. Locate the **Response Messages** section. Click the **Try it out!** button.

16. Observe the results of the request.

17. Close the additional browser tab and return to the browser tab with the **Azure Portal** currently active.

> **Review**: In this exercise, you created an Azure Search instance that uses an indexer to index the documents in Azure Cosmos DB.

## Exercise 4: Cleanup Subscription

#### Task 1: Open Cloud Shell

1.  At the top of the portal, click the **Cloud Shell** icon to open a new shell instance.

2.  In the **Cloud Shell** command prompt at the bottom of the portal, type in the following command and press **Enter** to list all resource groups in the subscription:

    ```azurecli-interactive
    az group list
    ```

#### Task 2: Delete Resource Groups

1.  Type in the following command and press **Enter** to delete the **MOD07CSDB** *Resource Group*:

    ```azurecli-interactive
    az group delete --name MOD07CSDB --no-wait --yes
    ```

2.  Close the **Cloud Shell** prompt at the bottom of the portal.

#### Task 3: Close Active Applications

1.  Close the currently running **Microsoft Edge** application.

> **Review**: In this exercise, you "cleaned up your subscription" by removing the **Resource Groups** used in this lab.
