# Module 5: Authoring Serverless Applications in Azure

# Lab Answer Key: Deploying Serverless Workloads to Azure

## Before we start

1.  Ensure that you are logged in to your **Windows 10** Virtual Machine using the following credentials:

    -   **Username**: Admin

    -   **Password**: Pa55w.rd

2.  Observe the **Taskbar** located at the bottom of your **Windows 10** desktop. The Taskbar contains the icons for the common applications we will use in the labs:

    -   Microsoft Edge

    -   File Explorer

    -   [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/)

    -   [Microsoft Azure Storage Explorer](https://azure.microsoft.com/features/storage-explorer/)

    -   Bash on Ubuntu on Windows

    -   Windows PowerShell

    -   Microsoft Word 2016

    > **Note**: You can also find shortcuts to these applications on the **Desktop** and in the **Start Menu**.

## Exercise 1: Create Web App

#### Task 1: Open the Azure Portal

1.  On the Taskbar, click the **Microsoft Edge** icon.

2.  In the open browser window, navigate to the **Azure Portal** (<https://portal.azure.com>).

3.  Enter the **email address** of your *Microsoft account*.

4.  Click the **Next** button.

5.  Enter the **password** for your *Microsoft account*.

6.  Click the **Sign in** button.

#### Task 2: Create App Service Plan

1.  At the top of the portal, click the **Cloud Shell** icon to open a new shell instance.

2.  In the **Cloud Shell** command prompt at the bottom of the portal, type in the following command and press **Enter** to create a new **Resource Group**:

    ```azurecli-interactive
    az group create --name MOD05APPS --location eastus
    ```

3.  Type in the following command and press **Enter** to create a new **Resource Group**:

    ```azurecli-interactive
    az group create --name MOD05FUNC --location eastus
    ```

4.  Type in the following command and press **Enter** to view a list of possible CLI commands for *App Service*:

    ```azurecli-interactive
    az appservice --help
    ```

5.  Type in the following command and press **Enter** to view a list of possible CLI commands for *App Service Plans*:

    ```azurecli-interactive
    az appservice plan --help
    ```

6.  Type in the following command and press **Enter** to view a list of possible CLI commands to *create App Service Plans*:

    ```azurecli-interactive
    az appservice plan create --help
    ```

7.  Type in the following command and press **Enter** to create a new **App Service Plan**:

    ```azurecli-interactive
    az appservice plan create --is-linux --name HostedServicePlan --resource-group MOD05APPS --location eastus --sku B2
    ```

#### Task 3: Create a Web App Instance

1.  Type in the following command and press **Enter** to view a list of possible CLI commands for *Web Apps*:

    ```azurecli-interactive
    az webapp --help
    ```

2.  Type in the following command and press **Enter** to view a list of possible CLI commands to *create Web Apps*:

    ```azurecli-interactive
    az webapp create --help
    ```

3.  Type in the following command and press **Enter** to view a list of possible *runtimes* for a *linux-based az webApp Service* instance:

    ```azurecli-interactive
    az webapp list-runtimes --linux
    ```

4.  Type in the following command and press **Enter** to create a new blank **Web App** using a unique name:

    ```azurecli-interactive
    az webapp create --name [Unique Name Here] --plan HostedServicePlan --resource-group MOD05APPS --runtime "DOTNETCORE|2.0"
    ```

    Make sure you replace the **\[Unique Name Here\]** placeholder with a globally unique name. For example, if your unique name is **blankinterestingapp**, your command will look like this:

    ```azurecli-interactive
    az webapp create --name blankinterestingapp --plan HostedServicePlan --resource-group MOD05APPS --runtime "DOTNETCORE|2.0"
    ```

5.  On the left side of the portal, click the **Resource groups** link.

6.  In the **Resource groups** blade, locate and select the **MOD05APPS** *Resource Group* link.

7.  In the **MOD05APPS** blade, select the **Web App** you most recently created.

8.  In the **Web App** blade, click the **Browse** button at the top of the blade.

9.  Observe the placeholder page provided by Azure App Service.

10. Close the additional browser tab and return to the browser tab with the **Azure Portal** currently active.

> **Review**: In this exercise, you created a *Linux-based* **App Service Plan** that contained a blank Web App.

## Exercise 2: Deploy Web App Code

#### Task 1: Deploy Code with a Web App Extension using ARM and GitHub

> **Note**: If you leave your linux-based app in your RG, this task will fail  with "The requested ap service plan cannot be created in the current resource group because it is hosting Linux apps."

1.  At the top of the portal, click the **Cloud Shell** icon to open a new shell instance.

2.  In the **Cloud Shell** command prompt at the bottom of the portal, type in the following command and press **Enter** to create a new blank **Web App** using a unique name:

    ```azurecli-interactive
    az webapp create --name [Unique Name Here] --plan HostedServicePlan --resource-group MOD05APPS --runtime "NODE|9.4"
    ```

    Make sure you replace the **\[Unique Name Here\]** placeholder with a globally unique name. For example, if your unique name is **githubproject**, your command will look like this:

    ```azurecli-interactive
    az webapp create --name githubproject --plan HostedServicePlan --resource-group MOD05APPS --runtime "NODE|9.4"
    ```

3.  On the left side of the portal, click the **Create a resource** link.

4.  At the top of the **New** blade, locate the **Search the Marketplace** field.

5.  Enter the text **Template Deployment** into the search field and press **Enter**.

6.  In the **Everything** search results blade, select the **Template deployment** result.

7.  In the **Template deployment** blade, click the **Create** button.

8.  In the **Custom deployment** blade, click the *Build your own template in the editor* link.

9.  In the **Edit template** blade, click the **Load file** link.

10. In the **Open** file dialog that appears, navigate to the **Allfiles (F):\\Mod05\\Labfiles\\Starter** folder.

11. Select the **github.json** file.

12. Click the **Open** button.

13. Back in the **Edit template** blade, click the **Save** button to persist the template.

14. Back in the **Custom deployment** blade, perform the following actions:

    a.  Leave the **Subscription** field set to it's default value.

    b.  In the **Resource group** section, select the **Use existing** option.

    c.  In the **Resource group** section, locate the list and select the **MOD05APPS** option.

    d.  In the **Web App Name** field, enter the unique name of the Node.js **Web App** you created earlier in this lab.

    e.  In the **Repository Url** field, enter the value **https://github.com/Azure-Samples/nodejs-docs-hello-world**.

    f.  Leave the **Branch** field set to it's default value.

    g.  In the **Terms and Conditions** section, select the *I agree to the terms and conditions stated above* checkbox.

    h.  Click the **Purchase** button.

15. Wait for the deployment task to complete before moving on with this lab.

16. On the left side of the portal, click the **Resource groups** link.

17. In the **Resource groups** blade, locate and select the **MOD05APPS** *Resource Group* link.

18. In the **MOD05APPS** blade, select the **Web App** you most recently created.

19. In the **Web App** blade, click the **Browse** button at the top of the blade.

20. Observe the sample Node.js web application deployed from GitHub.

#### Task 2: Deploy Code with a Docker Hub Container Image

1.  At the top of the portal, click the **Cloud Shell** icon to open a new shell instance.

2.  In the **Cloud Shell** command prompt at the bottom of the portal, type in the following command and press **Enter** to create a new **Web App** using a unique name and the **ghost** container image from **Docker Hub**:

    ```azurecli-interactive
    az webapp create --name [Unique Name Here] --plan HostedServicePlan --resource-group MOD05APPS --deployment-container-image ghost
    ```

    Make sure you replace the **\[Unique Name Here\]** placeholder with a globally unique name. For example, if your unique name is **examplewondefulblog**, your command will look like this:

    ```azurecli-interactive
    az webapp create --name examplewondefulblog --plan HostedServicePlan --resource-group MOD05APPS --deployment-container-image ghost
    ```

3.  Wait for the creation task to complete before moving on with this lab.

4.  On the left side of the portal, click the **Resource groups** link.

5.  In the **Resource groups** blade, locate and select the **MOD05APPS** *Resource Group* link.

6.  In the **MOD05APPS** blade, select the **Web App** you most recently created.

7.  In the **Web App** blade, click the **Browse** button at the top of the blade. If the application does not appear, restart the web app and try again.

8.  Observe the Blog application deployed from Docker Hub.

> **Review**: In this exercise, you deployed code using both ARM and a **Docker Hub** container image to various **App Service** instances.

## Exercise 3: Deploy Function App and Code

#### Task 1: Deploy Function App with Code using ARM

1.  At the top of the **New** blade, locate the **Search the Marketplace** field.

2.  Enter the text **Template Deployment** into the search field and press **Enter**.

3.  In the **Everything** search results blade, select the **Template deployment** result.

4.  In the **Template deployment** blade, click the **Create** button.

5.  In the **Custom deployment** blade, click the *Build your own template in the editor* link.

6.  In the **Edit template** blade, click the **Quickstart Template** link.

7.  In the **Load a quickstart template** dialog that appears, select the **201-function-app-dedicated-github-deploy** template from the list of available templates.

8.  Click the **Edit template** button.
9.  In the **Edit template** blade, click the **Save** button to persist the template.

10. Back in the **Custom deployment** blade, perform the following actions:

    a.  Leave the **Subscription** field set to it's default value.

    b.  In the **Resource group** section, locate the list and select the **MOD05FUNC** option.

    c.  In the **App Name** field, enter a unique name for the new **Function App**.

    d.  In the **Sku** list, select the **Basic** option.

    e.  Leave the **Worker Size** field set to it's default value.

    f.  Leave the **Storage Account Type** field set to it's default value.

    g.  Leave the **Repo URL** field set to it's default value.

    h.  Leave the **Branch** field set to it's default value.

    i.  In the **Terms and Conditions** section, select the *I agree to the terms and conditions stated above* checkbox.

    j.  Click the **Purchase** button.

11. Wait for the creation task to complete before moving on with this lab.

12. On the left side of the portal, click the **Resource groups** link.

13. In the **Resource groups** blade, locate and select the **MOD05FUNC** *Resource Group* link.

14. In the **MOD05FUNC** blade, select the **Function App** you most recently created.

15. In the **Function Apps** blade, locate the **Url** field at the top of the blade and click the hyperlink below the field to see the Function App landing page in a new browser tab.

16. Close the additional browser tab and return to the browser tab with the **Azure Portal** currently active.

> **Review**: In this exercise, you deployed a Function App and code using an automated ARM template.

## Exercise 4: Cleanup Subscription

#### Task 1: Open Cloud Shell

1.  At the top of the portal, click the **Cloud Shell** icon to open a new shell instance.

2.  In the **Cloud Shell** command prompt at the bottom of the portal, type in the following command and press **Enter** to list all resource groups in the subscription:

    ```azurecli-interactive
    az group list
    ```

#### Task 2: Delete Resource Groups

1.  Type in the following command and press **Enter** to delete the **MOD05APPS** *Resource Group*:

    ```azurecli-interactive
    az group delete --name MOD05APPS --no-wait --yes
    ```

2.  Type in the following command and press **Enter** to delete the **MOD05FUNC** *Resource Group*:

    ```azurecli-interactive
    az group delete --name MOD05FUNC --no-wait --yes
    ```

3.  Close the **Cloud Shell** prompt at the bottom of the portal.

#### Task 3: Close Active Applications

1.  Close the currently running **Microsoft Edge** application.

> **Review**: In this exercise, you "cleaned up your subscription" by removing the **Resource Groups** used in this lab.
